This is fvwm-2.0.43 hacked for a look and feel similar to Windows-95.

The installation process is more or less the same as for the standard
fvwm2, the only difference is that the program name will be fvwm95, and
the modules will be copied to /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fvwm95. Refer to the
file INSTALL for more details. 

I also have included a hacked version of the Win95WinList module from
David Barth (original from Mike Finger), whichs looks very close to the
Windows-95 task bar. There is a clock and incoming mail indicator on it,
it can also swallow other modules. The module is named FvwmTaskBar, for
more information read the README file in the modules/FvwmTaskBar
directory.

For best results, use the supplied example.fvwm2rc95 as your initial
.fvwm2rc95 file, and customize it as necessary. I have tried to use the
same colors as in Windows-95, as well as similar-looking fonts for the
title bar and menus. Basically, the format used in the file is the same as
in the standard .fvwm2rc, with some minor differences and additional
commands, they are briefly explained in the example file. 

I have included in the directory mini-icons some 16x16 pixmaps that can be
used for the menus (the example.fvwm95rc uses some of them). All they
together use no more than 8 colors, and they look best over a light gray
background (such the #c0c0c0 used in the example configuration). You have
to move them manually to /usr/local/mini-icons or some other directory,
and update the PixmapPath setting in the .fvwm95rc


There is a new mailing list for fvwm95-related questions and discussions.
The address is:

  fvwm95@physik.uni-muenchen.de

To subscribe or unsubscribe a message should be sent to:

  fvwm95-request@physik.uni-muenchen.de

with the word "subscribe" or "unsubscribe" in the message body.
The messages will be archived and could be requested from:

  majordomo@physik.uni-muenchen.de

A weekly (or when 40kByte of size is reached) digest is also available: 

  fvwm95-digest-request@physik.uni-muenchen.de

Please, do not send fvwm95 specific questions to the fvwm mailing list or
to the fvwm mantainer (Charles Hines, chuck_hines@vnet.ibm.com).


The Fvwm-95 home page is being moved to:

  http://www.linux-kheops.com/pub/fvwm95

There previous mirror site is still at:

  http://www.terraware.net/ftp/pub/Mirrors/FVWM95/fvwm95.html


Fvwm95 is available from the following ftp sites:

  http://www.medfac.unimelb.edu.au/staff/raul/bin/  (Australia)
  ftp://mitac11.uia.ac.be/pub/                      (Belgium)
  ftp://ekf2.vsb.cz/pub/linux/fvwm-95/              (Czech Republic)
  ftp://ftp.plig.org/pub/fvwm95/                    (UK)
  ftp://ftp.terraware.net/pub/Mirrors/FVWM95/       (USA)


Enjoy!
Hector Peraza.
peraza@mitac11.uia.ac.be
peraza@uia.ua.ac.be


NOTE: this version of fvwm95 is hacked even further. The taskbar has been
modified and some new modules are included. Also the system.fvwm95rc has
been heavily modified and commented.

Emmanuel Rouat
rouat@dsys.ceng.cea.fr